[OSDOCS-14539]: Custom DNS name (#94090)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/hcp-custom-kubeapi.adoc

// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-non-bm.adoc
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-ibm-power.adoc
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-ibmz.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="hcp-custom-kubeapi_{context}"]
= Defining a custom DNS name

As a cluster administrator, you can create a hosted cluster with an external API DNS name that is different from the internal endpoint that is used for node bootstraps and control plane communication. You might want to define a different DNS name for the following reasons:

* To replace the user-facing TLS certificate with one from a public CA without breaking the control plane functions that are bound to the internal root CA
* To support split-horizon DNS and NAT scenarios
* To ensure a similar experience to standalone control planes, where you can use functions such as the "Show Login Command" function with the correct `kubeconfig` and DNS configuration

In order to define a DNS name, you insert a domain name in the `kubeAPIServerDNSName` field of a `HostedCluster` object. You can define the name either during your initial setup or during day-2 operations.

.Procedure

> 

Author: Done

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-aws.adoc
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-bm.adoc
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-virt.adoc
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-non-bm.adoc
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-ibm-power.adoc
// * hosted_control_planes/hcp-deploy/hcp-deploy-ibmz.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="hcp-custom-kubeapi_{context}"]
= Defining a custom DNS name

As a cluster administrator, you can create a hosted cluster with an external API DNS name that is different from the internal endpoint that is used for node bootstraps and control plane communication. You might want to define a different DNS name for the following reasons:

* To replace the user-facing TLS certificate with one from a public CA without breaking the control plane functions that are bound to the internal root CA
* To support split-horizon DNS and NAT scenarios

> * To ensure a similar experience to standalone control planes, where you can use functions such as the "Show Login Command" function with the correct `kubeconfig` and DNS configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To ensure a similar experience to standalone control planes, where you can use functions, such as the "Show Login Command" function with the correct `kubeconfig` and DNS configuration
```

> * To ensure a similar experience to standalone control planes, where you can use functions such as the "Show Login Command" function with the correct `kubeconfig` and DNS configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To ensure a similar experience to standalone control planes, where you can use functions, such as the "Show Login Command" function with the correct `kubeconfig` and DNS configuration
```

> In order to define a DNS name, you insert a domain name in the `kubeAPIServerDNSName` field of a `HostedCluster` object. You can define the name either during your initial setup or during day-2 operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define a DNS name, insert a domain name in the `kubeAPIServerDNSName` field of a `HostedCluster` object. You can define the name either during your initial setup or during day-2 operations.
```

----

After the `kubeAPIServerDNSName` field is defined and the certificate is specified, the Control Plane Operator controllers create a `kubeconfig` file named `custom-admin-kubeconfig`, which is stored in the `HostedControlPlane` namespace. The certificates are generated from the root CA, and the `HostedControlPlane` namespace manages their expiration and renewal.

The Control Plane Operator reports a new `kubeconfig` file named `CustomKubeconfig` in the `HostedControlPlane` namespace. That file uses the new server that is defined in the `kubeAPIServerDNSName` field.

The custom `kubeconfig` file is referenced in the `HostedCluster` object in the `status` field as `CustomKubeconfig`. The `CustomKubeConfig` field is optional, and can be added only if the `kubeAPIServerDNSName` field is not empty. When the `CustomKubeConfig` field is set, it triggers the generation of a secret named `<hosted_cluster_name>-custom-admin-kubeconfig` in the `HostedCluster` namespace. You can use the secret to access the `HostedCluster` API server. If you remove the `CustomKubeConfig` field during day-2 operations, all related secrets and status references are deleted.

[NOTE]
====

> This process does not directly affect the data plane, so no rollouts are expected to occur. The `HostedControlPlane` namespace will receive the changes from the HyperShift Operator and will delete the corresponding fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process does not directly affect the data plane, so no rollouts are expected to occur. The `HostedControlPlane` namespace receives the changes from the HyperShift Operator and deletesthe corresponding fields.
```
Avoid future tense.

====

> If you remove the `kubeAPIServerDNSName` field from the specification, all newly generated secrets and the `CustomKubeconfig` reference will be removed from the cluster and from the `status` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you remove the `kubeAPIServerDNSName` field from the specification, all newly generated secrets and the `CustomKubeconfig` reference str removed from the cluster and from the `status` field.
```
Same comment as above.
